xii rnnrrcn.

that period, and give us an opportunity os be-
holding in true colours the records of a simple
and devotional age.

,Μ ,0⁸¹ §3. The other works of Trivet are nume-
ave. rouS, but unfortunately considerable confusion

has been caused by his biographers in' citing,
under different titles, works which are identical.
They make, for instance, three works. out of

- his one Chronicle ¹of the History of the World 3

they deprive him of the authorship of others, by
adopting a typical. error in his name, and creat·
ing a fictitious Nicholas of Utrecht, to account
sor the mistake that occurs in converting Tre·
vech into Traject3 and, again, they ascribe to
him a work which truly belongs to valeys, the
author of the ‘ Communiloquium,' but on which
both Trivet and Valeys had written commen-
taries. As, however, we are not called upon
in this place to unrav'el all this confusion, we
need only refer to the lists of works ascribed
to him by Leland, Pitseus, and Bale, but more
particularly by Quetif and Echard, the histo·
rians of the Dominican order, who with better
arrangement have given a full catalogue of all
the works that have been attributed to him, at .
thc same time judiciously receiving with doubt
such as they could not determine with certainty,

, and giving means for investigation by referring

to various MSS. abroad, and inthe Royal Library
at Paris. It is here amply sufficient sor our pre·

sent purpose to notice a few, which we have
examined, and had the means of determining ·

ιιι. noa 1. The first we shall mention is his‘ His·

Ghro 11
lirim the
beginningoi

toria ab Orbe condito ad Christi Nativitatemss

new «ιιι of Leland3 ‘ad suum tempus, ofBale. his‘ An-

nales a Christo usquo ad suum tempus,' of Pit-
seus: and the work‘ do Gestis Imperatorum,

 

